Foreign Affairs, Foreign Employment and Tourism Ministry Accelerates…

Foreign Affairs, Foreign Employment and Tourism Ministry Accelerates Digital Transformation

In a move to digitise public sector service delivery, a discussion was held yesterday (17) at the Presidential Secretariat concerning the digital reform plan set to be implemented by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Foreign Employment and Tourism.

The aim of this meeting, organised with the support of the Ministry of Digital Economy, was to expedite the digitisation of the Ministry’s internal operations and diplomatic services.

Key areas of focus included digital management of foreign mission services, the introduction of expanded digital consular services and the establishment of a formal mechanism for services provided to migrant workers. Plans were also unveiled to introduce a user-friendly web interface, ensuring improved access to information and services for both domestic and international users.

The meeting also addressed simplifying procedures for Sri Lankan citizens abroad, such as submitting passport applications and other official documents. These reforms are expected to minimise administrative delays and significantly enhance user convenience.

The meeting, co-chaired by Mr. Eranga Weerarathne, Deputy Minister of Digital Economy and Mr. Arun Hemachandra, Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Employment, was attended by several senior officials. These included Mr. Waruna Sri Dhanapala, Acting Secretary to the Ministry of Digital Economy, Mr. Roshan Gamage, Senior Additional Secretary to the President, Mr. Prasad Piyaseena, Additional Secretary to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Foreign Employment and Tourism, Ms. Nirmala Paranawithana, Director General of the Consular Affairs Division, Mr. Thushara Rodrigo, Director General of the Public Diplomacy Division and Mr. P.G.G.S. Yapa, Acting Additional General Manager (International Affairs) of the Sri Lanka Bureau of Foreign Employment.