Indian Prime Minister receives warm welcome at Independence…

Indian Prime Minister receives warm welcome at Independence Square

The official welcoming ceremony for Indian Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi, who arrived in the island on a State visit at the invitation of President Anura Kumara Disanayake, took place this morning (05) at the Independence Square in Colombo, under the patronage of President Disanayake.

Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi embarks on this visit, reaffirming the concept of “Friendship of Centuries – Commitment to a Prosperous Future”, which underscores the enduring ties between Sri Lanka and India and their shared vision for a thriving future.

Indian Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi was ceremoniously escorted to Independence Square with a Police Mounted Guard of honour, following which he was warmly welcomed by President Anura Kumara Disanayake.

The official welcome ceremony for Indian Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi commenced following the playing of the national anthems of both India and Sri Lanka.

The Prime Minister was received with full state honours, including a ceremonial guard of honour and gun salute, in recognition of his state visit to the country. Subsequently, the Indian Prime Minister inspected the Sri Lanka Armed Forces Guard of Honour.

Following the exchange of state courtesies between President Anura Kumara Disanayake and Prime Minister Modi, members of the Sri Lankan and Indian delegations were formally introduced.

The State Ceremony to welcome Indian Prime Minister Shri Narendra Modi was attended by Sri Lankan Prime Minister Dr. Harini Amarasuriya, Speaker of Parliament Jagath Wickramaratne, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Foreign Employment and Tourism Vijitha Herath, Minister of Labour and Deputy Minister of Economic Development Anil Jayantha Fernando, Minister of Industry and Entrepreneurship Development Sunil Handunnetti, Minister of Health and Mass Media Dr. Nalinda Jayatissa, Minister of Fisheries, Aquatic and Ocean Resources Ramalingam Chandrasekar and Western Province Governor Hanif Yusuf.

On the Indian side, the ceremony was graced by Minister of External Affairs Dr. S. Jaishankar, National Security Advisor Ajit Doval, Foreign Secretary Vikram Misri, and High Commissioner of India to Sri Lanka His Excellency Santosh Jha, along with a delegation of senior officials from both nations.