Workshop for Subject Officers from Divisional Secretariats of…
Workshop for Subject Officers from Divisional Secretariats of Southern Province from President’s Fund
As part of a series of specialized training workshops aimed at decentralizing the activities of the President’s Fund to the regional level, a workshop for subject officers in the Southern Province was held yesterday (05) at the Matara District Secretariat.
With the successful implementation of the process of accepting applications for medical assistance through all Divisional Secretariats islandwide, the President’s Fund has now taken steps to decentralize its other services as well.
Accordingly, a series of specialized workshops is being conducted across the country for Divisional Secretaries and subject officers involved with the Fund.
The first workshop was held in the Northern Province recently.
This event in Matara District Secretariat marked the third phase of the programme.
During the session, Senior Additional Secretary to the President and Secretary to the President’s Fund, Mr. Roshan Gamage, briefed participants on the mandate and operations of the Fund. Senior officers from the Fund also provided clear guidance on topics such as safety of digital system and usage, the process from accepting applications for medical aid to final approval and the subsequent disbursement procedures.
The workshop also included a discussion on common challenges faced by subject officers and potential solutions. Certificates for the participation were presented to the officers in recognition of their involvement.
At present, the President’s Fund offers a wide range of services, including assistance for poverty alleviation, educational scholarships, recognition of students with exceptional academic achievements, support for individuals with special needs, aid for children affected by wild elephant attacks, grants for those who have served the nation or contributed nationally, emergency and disaster relief.
Previously, these services were limited to Colombo for nearly 47 years. However, under this new programme, individuals in need can now apply through any Divisional Secretariat across the country.
This initiative is the result of a decision by the Board of Governors of the President’s Fund, chaired by the President, to make its services more accessible and efficient while also minimizing misuse.
The event was attended by over 100 subject officers from Divisional Secretariats including Matara District Secretary Mr. Chandana Tilakaratne, Galle District Secretary Mr. W.A. Dharmasiri and Hambantota District Secretary Mr. Bimal Silva, as well as staff members from the President’s Fund.