Chinese Minister of Commerce Meets with President

Chinese Minister of Commerce Meets with President

• Chinese investors express keen interest in investing in Sri Lanka in light of the current government’s transparent policy framework

The Minister of Commerce of the People’s Republic of China, Mr. Wang Wentao, who is currently on an official visit to Sri Lanka, met with President Anura Kumara Disanayake this afternoon (29) at the Presidential Secretariat for discussions.

Minister Wang noted that, considering the current political and economic stability in Sri Lanka, along with the clear policy direction being pursued by President Disanayake’s administration, there has been a notable rise in interest from Chinese investors looking to invest in the country.

He further stated that this visit undertaken with the participation of over 100 Chinese investors demonstrates a solid dedication to enhancing economic collaboration between the two nations.

The discussion also focused on the importance of working together to achieve mutually beneficial trade and economic goals during this challenging period. In light of global economic instability, the Chinese Minister of Commerce reiterated China’s commitment to providing the necessary support to Sri Lanka.

One of the key objectives of Minister Wang Wentao’s visit is to follow up on the agreements reached during President Anura Kumara Disanayake’s recent visit to China. The two sides also discussed the timely completion of on-going development projects in Sri Lanka with Chinese government support, as well as the prompt implementation of proposed new initiatives.

The Chinese delegation included H.E. Qi Zhenhong, Ambassador of China to Sri Lanka, Mr. Wang Liping, Director General of the Department of Asian Affairs and Ms. Shu Jueting, Director General of the Department of Foreign Affairs.

Representing Sri Lanka, Minister of Trade, Commerce, Food Security and Cooperative Development Wasantha Samarasinghe Secretary to the President Dr. Nandika Sanath Kumanayake and Senior Additional Secretary to the President Roshan Gamage, along with other officials, were also present at the occasion.