Tree Planting Programme Launches to Mark World Environment…
Tree Planting Programme Launches to Mark World Environment Day
A group of students from Bopitiya Pamunugama Maha Vidyalaya and Mawanella Zahira College visited the Presidential Secretariat and the President’s House today (June 5) as part of a special programme held in line with World Environment Day.
This opportunity was made available under the ‘Vision’ programme series, jointly implemented by the Presidential Secretariat, the Ministry of Education and the Communications Department of the Parliament of Sri Lanka, to engage schoolchildren in national-level initiatives.
Following their visit to the Old Parliament building, the students were briefed on the history of Sri Lanka’s Parliament.
Coinciding with World Environment Day, fruit and medicinal saplings were distributed to the participating schools, symbolizing the importance of environmental sustainability. Furthermore, a national programme to distribute 20,000 coconut saplings to schools across the island, with the support of the Sri Lanka Air Force, was officially launched.
During their visit, the students also recited the World Environment Day pledge and performed environmental-themed songs, expressing their commitment to environmental stewardship.
A special lecture was delivered by Professor Kapila Yakandawala, Senior Professor of Department of Horticulture and Landscape Gardening, Faculty of Agriculture & Plantation Management, Wayamba University of Sri Lanka. He emphasized the importance of planting and maintaining trees with proper awareness.
“If trees are planted with awareness, the benefits are much greater. Planting trees is important, but so is taking care of them. Just like raising children, trees need nurturing. If neglected, they may grow improperly. After 40 or 50 years, such trees can fall, especially during strong winds as we see now. Although we cannot prevent it entirely, we can reduce the risk. Often, trees that fall have shallow root systems confined to the surface. In rural areas, roots penetrate deeper into the soil. However, in urban environments, we often plant a tree and seal the area with concrete up to the trunk. Trees, like humans, need to breathe. Roots need oxygen. Sealing them causes stress, and when strong winds blow, such trees are the first to fall. Therefore, we must be well-informed when selecting and maintaining trees.”
Also in attendance at the event were Senior Additional Secretary to the President K.M.N. Kumarasinghe, Director of International Media and Strategic Communications at the President’s Media Division Anuruddha Lokuhapuarachchi and Assistant Director Nadeeka Dangolla. School principals, vice principals and members of the academic staff also participated.