National Plan to Establish Daycare Centres for Children…
National Plan to Establish Daycare Centres for Children with Autism and Neurodevelopmental Disorders
Secretary to the President, Dr. Nandika Sanath Kumanayake, instructed relevant officials to submit a conceptual proposal within two weeks for a joint plan to establish a national mechanism for treatment and day-care centres for children with autism and neurodevelopmental disorders.
These instructions were given by the President’s Secretary to the relevant officials during a discussion held yesterday (09) afternoon , led by the ‘Prajashakthi’ Secretariat, regarding this programme which is being implemented according to a concept by President Anura Kumara Dissanayake. This programme will be implemented by the relevant line ministries and affiliated institutions, with coordination handled by the Presidential Secretariat.
During the discussion, matters such as reallocating Rs. 250 million from the funds allocated to the Ministry of Women and Child Affairs in this year’s budget back to the Treasury and then providing it to District Secretaries through the Department of Social Services, preparing a human resource development plan necessary for operating these day-care centres, and developing a new model with a scientific background for implementing this programme by engaging relevant line ministries and affiliated institutions, were discussed.
Secretary to the President, Dr. Nandika Sanath Kumanaayake, further instructed the officials to prepare the conceptual proposal for a mechanism comprising these points within two weeks.
A group including Senior Additional Secretary to the President Kapila Janaka Bandara, Secretary to the Ministry of Women and Child Affairs K.D.R. Olga, Secretary to the Ministry of Rural Development, Social Security and Community Empowerment Sampath Manthrinayake, Additional Secretary H.A. Hema Perera, Director of the Department of Social Services Darshani Karunaratne, Ms. Varuni Rasadari, Director of the National Secretariat for Early Childhood Development affiliated with the Ministry of Women and Child Affairs, Consultant Community Physician Dr. Asiri Hewamalage, Deputy Director of Public Health, and Dr. Santhushitha Senadhipathi, Deputy Director of Lady Ridgeway Hospital for Children, participated in the event.