President Holds Key Meetings with World Leaders on…
President Holds Key Meetings with World Leaders on the Side-lines of the World Governments Summit
• President Meets with Pakistani Prime Minister and Former British Prime Minister
• World Leaders Praise Corruption-Free Governance
President Anura Kumara Disanayake who is currently attending the World Governments Summit 2025 in Dubai held several high-level bilateral discussions with Heads of State, today (11).
During the day, the President met with Pakistan’s Prime Minister Muhammad Shehbaz Sharif. Prime Minister Sharif extended his congratulations to President Disanayake on his government’s significant electoral victory in Sri Lanka.
The discussions focused on strengthening trade relations and diversifying markets between the two countries. Both leaders also deliberated on the importance of adopting a new strategic framework to enhance economic co-operation.
President Disanayake briefed the Pakistani Prime Minister on Sri Lanka’s current economic policies, emphasizing that his administration is committed to transparent and corruption-free economic management. He further highlighted that such governance would create a solid foundation for Sri Lanka’s economic growth.
Additionally, the discussion placed special emphasis on promoting tourism between Sri Lanka and Pakistan, exploring opportunities to boost the industry in both countries.
Meanwhile, President Disanayake also met with former British Prime Minister Tony Blair. The discussions revolved around the potential for Sri Lanka to leverage the United Kingdom’s expertise and specialized knowledge in various sectors.
President Disanayake briefed Blair on the investment opportunities in Sri Lanka’s health, ports and tourism sectors, extending an invitation for UK investors to explore these prospects.
Former British Prime Minister Blair highlighted the potential for Sri Lanka to benefit from expertise in climate change adaptation, good governance and agricultural advancements.
Additionally, he commended Sri Lanka’s current administration for its transparency and corruption-free governance, specifically recognizing these qualities as key strengths of the present leadership.
Foreign Affairs, Foreign Employment and Tourism Minister Vijitha Herath also accompanied the President on this visit.