Mahanama College Students Visit Presidential Secretariat

Mahanama College Students Visit Presidential Secretariat

Students from Mahanama College, Colombo 03 visited the Presidential Secretariat today (29). This opportunity was afforded as part of the ‘Vision’ programme series, jointly organised by the Presidential Secretariat, the Ministry of Education and the Parliament Department of Communication, specifically for schoolchildren.

During the visit, Mahanama College, Colombo, held the inaugural session of its Student Parliament. The proceedings included the appointment and swearing-in of the Speaker, along with the swearing-in of the Members of Parliament. Coinciding with this, certificates of participation were awarded to the members of the Student Parliament and Bank of Ceylon accounts were opened for them.

Additionally, the participating students received an informative session on future leadership, the history of parliamentary tradition and the role of Parliament. Mr. Roshan Gamage, Senior Additional Secretary to the President addressed the students, highlighting that a government chosen by the people represents a democratic administration, with its ultimate aim and objective being to serve the populace.

He expressed his hope that these children would become future leaders of the country and dedicate themselves to public service.
Mr. Gamage also outlined the function of the President’s Fund and its importance for schoolchildren.

To coincide with the programme, valuable plants were presented to the school as a symbolic gift, emphasising the importance of environmental conservation and the ‘Vision’ magazine was also handed over.

Among those present at the event were Dr. Rizvie Salih, Deputy Speaker of Parliament; Mr. Chaminda Kularatne, Chief of Staff and Deputy Secretary-General of Parliament; Mr. Jayalath Perera, Director of Legislative Services and Acting Director of Communications; Air Commodore Asiri Gallage, Director of the Tri-Forces Coordination Unit at the Presidential Secretariat; Major Nadeeka Dangolla, Assistant Director of the Tri-Forces Coordination Unit; Mr. Duminda Wickramasinghe, Public Services Officer; along with teachers and parents from Mahanama College and Bomiriya Central College.