Inaugural Session of the Student Parliament of Rajasinghe…

Inaugural Session of the Student Parliament of Rajasinghe Maha Vidyalaya Bope was held at the Old Parliament Chamber of the Presidential Secretariat

• Government to Gradually Reform the Existing Education System

– Prime Minister Dr. Harini Amarasuriya

The inaugural session of the Student Parliament Rajasinghe Maha Vidyalaya, Bope in Padukka was held today (19) at the historic Old Parliament Chamber located within the Presidential Secretariat.

This opportunity was granted to Rajasinghe Maha Vidyalaya Bope in line with the ‘Vision’ programme series implemented for school children by the Presidential Secretariat, the Ministry of Education and the Department of Communication of the Parliament of Sri Lanka.

Prime Minister Dr. Harini Amarasuriya attended the event as the Chief Guest and delivered a special address to the Student Parliament members. In her speech, she highlighted that fostering democracy in a nation requires the cultivation of engaged citizens, and that the government’s goal is to develop such active citizens.

The Prime Minister further highlighted the importance of strengthening the relationship between teachers and students, and noted that the government is planning to gradually reform the current education system.

The Prime Minister also responded to several questions raised by the Student Parliament members during the session.

The students were given valuable insights into future leadership, the history of parliamentary traditions and the role of the legislature by Chief of Staff and Deputy Secretary-General of Parliament, Attorney-at-Law Mr. Chaminda Kularatne.

Following the ceremonial commencement of the Student Parliament the elected Speaker and Members of Parliament were sworn in. Subsequently, certificates were awarded to the student members and Bank of Ceylon accounts were opened for them.

The event was also attended by Senior Additional Secretary to the President K.M.N. Kumarasinghe, Zonal Education Director of Padukka Neranji Kularatne, Principal of Rajasinghe Maha Vidyalaya Bope Mr. Sarath Kumara, Assistant Director of the Presidential Secretariat Major Nadika Dangolla, Public Service Officer Mr. Duminda Wickramaratne, as well as a number of teachers and distinguished guests.