Let us unite in advancing a positive social…
Let us unite in advancing a positive social transformation, based on the cultural heritage inherited through the Teachings of the Buddha
– President
President Anura Kumara Disanayake emphasized that the transformation which took place in Sri Lankan society with the introduction of Buddhism laid the foundation for a disciplined and culturally sophisticated nation.
The President expressed these views while participating in the National Poson Festival held today (10) at the sacred Mihintale temple grounds, organized under the theme “May the world be enlightened by the teachings of the Buddha.”
Highlighting that the arrival of Arahant Mahinda Thero marked a civilizational turning point, President Disanayake questioned how the Poson Festival could be meaningfully celebrated without remembering Mihintale and its profound significance.
The President highlighted that the spiritual and cultural heritage linked to Mihintale must be preserved and passed on to future generations, a responsibility the State must not ignore.
The President explained that only citizens who are spiritually and culturally grounded who remain connected to the earth and their heritage could truly uphold this responsibility, not those disconnected from reality. He said the government has already initiated a programme to restore and redevelop the ancient city of Anuradhapura in a manner that reinstates its former glory.
The President stated that the foundation for our country becoming a centre of Theravada Buddhist philosophy and tradition was established with the arrival of Anubudu Mihindu Thero in Sri Lanka. This remarkable event, which sparked spiritual enlightenment alongside social transformation, went beyond mere religious significance and enabled the development of more advanced frameworks across all aspects of our nation including cultural, social and political spheres.
President Anura Kumara Disanayake emphasized that the paramount responsibility lies in re-establishing that society on Sri Lankan soil and building a modern, cultured state for the country one that embraces new ethical, social and environmental principles and that this duty must be unwaveringly fulfilled.
The President stated that the government is undertaking the task of reconstructing Anuradhapura, the site of Sri Lanka’s first city, first reservoir, first surgical operation and the great irrigation canals like Yodha Ela, in a manner that restores its ancient heritage.
The President further noted that the Prime Minister of India has already expressed willingness to support this reconstruction initiative under Indian assistance.
Expressing further views on the occasion, President Anura Kumara Disanayake stated:
“Any nation needs a strong foundation to rise. For the Sri Lankan people, that strong foundation has been provided through the philosophy of the Buddha. In a society devoid of education, we cannot expect empowered citizens. More than two thousand years ago, it was Buddhism that introduced a transformative change in education to this country. By transforming temples into centres of learning “Pirivenas” Buddhism played a vital role in imparting not only spiritual guidance but also knowledge to the people. It paved the way for a well-disciplined and cultured social structure. For this immense contribution, the great monastic leaders who served this country throughout its 2,500-year history deserve the nation’s utmost respect and gratitude.
However, today that social structure has collapsed. Some members of the police have reached a point where they protect criminals. Certain officers at the Department of Immigration and Emigration are issuing travel documents illegally. Underworld figures have been granted passports. Some officials at the Department of Prisons have unlawfully released inmates. Even within the Department of Motor Traffic, some officers are engaged in illegal activities. Citizens do not view these institutions with confidence or peace of mind. Therefore, a well-disciplined civic programme must be established to foster a sense of civic responsibility among the people. The Buddhist philosophy can provide essential guidance in this regard.
As a disciplined nation, we are committed to restoring the integrity of these state institutions. We will not abandon this task, but to succeed, we need the cooperation of the general public. We must bring an end to this era of decline and lead the nation towards a victorious, spiritually and materially prosperous way of life. The people must unite to fulfil this vital responsibility”.
For the past two years, the National Poson Festival could not be held with state patronage. However, expressing gratitude for the firm decision taken to once again hold the National Poson Festival in Mihintale, the Chief Incumbent of the Mihintale Rajamaha Viharaya, Most Venerable Dr. Walawahengunawawe Dhammarathana Thero, extended his sincere thanks to the President during the ceremony.
The official welcome and the clarification of purpose were delivered by the Viharadikari of Mihintale, Venerable Surukkulame Indrarathana Thero.
Those in attendance at the event included the Chief Incumbent of Mihintale Rajamaha Viharaya, Venerable Dr. Walawahengunawawe Dhammarathana Thero, Minister of Buddhasasana, Religious and Cultural Affairs, Hiniduma Sunil Senevi, Minister Wasantha Samarasinghe, Deputy Minister of Religious and Cultural Affairs Gamagedara Dissanayake , Deputy Minister Susil Ranasinghe, Members of Parliament Sena Nanayakkara, Thilina Tharuka Samarakoon, Bhagya Sri Herath and Anuradhapura District Secretary Ranjith Wimalasuriya, along with a large number of participants.