Recommendation to Import 40,000 Metric Tonnes of Substitute…
Recommendation to Import 40,000 Metric Tonnes of Substitute Rice for Keeri Samba
Based on the disclosure from the Sri Lanka Consumer Affairs Authority highlighting the insufficient availability of Keeri Samba rice in the local market, the Food Policy and Security Committee has recommended the importation of 40,000 metric tonnes of substitute rice for Keeri Samba. Of this, 5,000 metric tonnes will be imported by government institutions, while the remainder will be brought in by the private sector.
This decision was reached during a meeting of the Committee held yesterday (25) at the Presidential Secretariat to take policy decisions ensuring the country’s food security.
Highlighting the importance of both fulfilling the nutritional needs of the citizens and protecting local producers, Minister of Trade, Commerce, Food Security and Cooperative Development Wasantha Samarasinghe expressed his views during the meeting.
Accordingly, a decision was also made to continue purchasing Keeri Samba paddy at a price of Rs. 120 per kilogram through the Paddy Marketing Board and Sathosa in order to safeguard local farmers.
Discussions were also held regarding the provision of storage facilities for Corn required for Thriposha production and the importation of rice or broken rice or else alternative raw materials for beer and animal feed production.
Attention was drawn during the discussions to the production of Corn based on consumer demand, as well as the production of canned fish, eggs and meat and importation of salt.
Fertiliser importation, stock maintenance, supply and distribution were also discussed. The progress of fertiliser distribution for the Yala season, the progress of issuing “Odapana” loans and the overall success of cultivation activities during the Yala season were reviewed as well.
Other members of the Food Policy and Security Committee including Mr. Pradeep Saputhanthri, Secretary to the Prime Minister, Senior Additional Secretary to the President, Mr. Kapila Janaka Bandara, along with Ministry Secretaries and Heads of Departments and Institutions, were also present at the meeting.