The Netherlands Government focused on Providing Technical and…

The Netherlands Government focused on Providing Technical and Financial Support for the Advancement of Agriculture, Education, Tourism, and Public Service in Sri Lanka

The Government of the Netherlands has focused its attention on providing the necessary technical assistance and financial resources to advance agriculture, education, tourism, and the public sector in Sri Lanka.

This agreement was conveyed today (13) during a meeting at the Presidential Secretariat between the Dutch delegation, led by Deputy Ambassador Iwan Rutjens, and Secretary to the President, Dr. Nandika Sanath Kumanayake.

Wageningen University & Research, recognized as the world’s leading sustainable university for the past seven years in global university rankings, aims to establish new collaborative initiatives with key Sri Lankan stakeholders in agriculture and agro-ecotourism.

These collaborations will focus on identifying opportunities and challenges within the sector, enabling partnerships with multilateral organizations such as the Asian Development Bank and World Bank to secure funding for projects in forestry and sustainable food systems. The private sector is expected to play a key role in supporting these initiatives.

Accordingly, the Dutch delegation expressed a strong interest in closely working with Sri Lanka to provide the necessary technological and financial support for these programs.

The Dutch delegation included prominent figures such as Mr. Wilfred Dolfsma – Professor & Chair holder, Business Management & Organization, Wageningen University & Research, Mr. Kalyan Chakravarthy Guntuboyina – Account Manager – Asia, Wageningen University & Research, Mr. Edward Huijbens – Professor & Chair, Cultural Geography Research Group (GEO), Wageningen University & Research, Mr. Ricardo Abdoel – Director/Chairman, RCI ASPIRE/u and Mrs. Shamoe Lakhisaran – Business Development, Sales Support @Control-Care together with Professor Ranil De Silva from the Sri Jayawardenepura University.